blog: tips on clojure dev workflow (#10)
moclojer/moclojer.com: content/blog/clojure-development-workflow.md

---
title: "Clojure Development Workflow Tips"
date: 2024-07-24T01:00:00+10:00
tags: ["clojure", "tip", "team", "dev"]
images: ["blog/clojure-development-workflow.png"]
description: "We'd like to share the REAL way to code clojure"
author: "<a href='https://github.com/Felipe-gsilva' alt='Felipe Gomes da Silva content author' target='_blank'>Felipe Gomes</a>"
---

![Clojure Development Workflow Tips](/blog/clojure-development-workflow.png?width=50%)

> We'd like to share our general development workflow and how we work with clojure, mainly on CLI. As a great team, we all share the tasteful and meaningful life of using `Linux` (although some part of the crew uses MacOS, we will talk mainly about the penguim system, because it is just better..). So, we decided to share the way we use our linux machines to test clojure while coding.

Reviewer: > although some part of the crew uses MacOS, we will talk mainly about the penguim system, because it is just better..)

Não deixa o @avelino ver isso não hein kkkkkk

> ## nREPL on runtime

Reviewer: Adiciona nessa secão que no Emacs você consegue abrir um nREPL direto pelo cider, sem precisar da `alias` no `deps.edn`.

A bind padrão é `C-c M-j`

Reviewer 2: isso é importante colocar no blogpost

Reviewer: @avelino foi uma pergunta?

A common practice you must have while developing Clojure applications is to serve your code editor with your [nREPL](https://github.com/nrepl/nREPL) and test all your functions while writing your code.

> To accomplish that, we must set up some things before.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to accomplish that, we must set some things up.
```

You will need to run nREPL on your clojure project and there are a few ways to deal with it.

`deps.edn`:

```clj
;; ...
{:aliases {:nrepl {:extra-deps {cider/cider-nrepl {:mvn/version "0.30.0"}}
          :main-opts ["-m" "nrepl.cmdline" "--middleware" "[cider.nrepl/cider-middleware]"]}}}
;; ...

> ```

Reviewer 2: wtf

and `leiningen`:
``` bash
lein repl :headless :host some-host :port 1234
```
run this in your shell and it open a repl on port *1234*, as simple as possible.

## Neovim

To evaluate all code in [Neovim](https://neovim.io/), we will use [Conjure](https://github.com/Olical/conjure), which works as a customized environment for executing Clojure code during nvim runtime.

> To install Conjure, follow step-by-step the [official documentation](https://github.com/Olical/conjure?tab=readme-ov-file#installation).

### Setting up the environment

We can create a simple remap, defining a mapleader, in this case, the `space`, and the necessary binds in normal mode.

```lua
-- defining the map leader
vim.g.mapleader = " "

-- eval a single function
vim.keymap.set("n", "<leader>ee", vim.cmd.ConjureEval)

-- eval an entire file
vim.keymap.set("n", "<leader>ef", vim.cmd.ConjureEvalFile)

-- Default Conjure settings
-- Disable doc mapping
vim.g["conjure#mapping#doc_word"] = false

-- Remap from K to <prefix>gk
vim.g["conjure#mapping#doc_word"] = "gk"

-- Reset to the default unprefixed K (note the special table syntax)
vim.g["conjure#mapping#doc_word"] = {"K"}

> ```

Reviewer 2: wtf
